Rhys Williams 661561
Seungwoo Kim 567587
Ishank Narula 667491

SWEN30006 Project 3
Reflections

Few changes were made to the original design submitted. A Postcodes model was added to better
facilitate requests involving aggregation of data at locations within a specified postcode. 
An unforseen problem at the time of design was that there was no reliable method of determining
which postcode a latitude/longitude location belonged to, and though the initial plan was to
first retrieve the coordinates of the stations and compare them with another resource that
could associate coordinates with postcodes, this had proven to be difficult. Additionally, the 
query would previously have been cumbersome to carry out as each location in the Locations model 
would have had to be traversed to determine whether it belonged to the requested postcode for each 
time the request was made, which did not seem problematic during the design stage of the project 
but once we had realised that we would be working with a thousand locations, its performance was no
longer satisfactory. That the same associatitive relations between a model and one of its
parameters was to be repeatedly verified suggested that the postcode parameter may be better
suited to be a model with a relation to locations instead, which solves the problem of determining
the postcode for a location as well. 

An updated document containing the new class and component diagrams have been uploaded to this 
repository. There is no change made to the sequence diagrams as none of the operations described
in those involve postcodes and would work just the same as previously intended.

Making predictions about weather properties using a limited sample size (constrained by the
functional requirement of a limit to API calls imposed by forecast.io) wihin a reasonable duration
(implicit non-functional requirement that the http requests get served in a timely manner) was a 
challenge. In the end, we opted to retrieve a collection of historical data at a location with
calls to forecast, with each call's time specification set apart from the previous one by a number
of minutes and make enough of these calls to have several hours' worth of data in the immediate
past with which to make regressions and thus predict the weather for the immediate future. This
method was moderately successful for properties such as temperature, but the others would have
required a more in-depth analysis. 

The project has been a reminder that having produced a rigorous and detailed design plan before
commencing work on implementation would have allowed for much smoother progress, allowing better
partitioning of the workload, with respect to both the allocated time and the group members, and less 
waste of effort as we would then rarely need to reconsider and replace what we have done. While it is 
difficult to consider which problems we may encounter during our implementation and prevent them before
they occur, it is our hope that this experience will better inform us in future projects of which 
problems are likely to occur and how we may go about circumventing them.
